Release Notes - 1.19.0 (#13783)
istio/istio.io: content/en/news/releases/1.19.x/announcing-1.19/_index.md

---
title: Announcing Istio 1.19.0
linktitle: 1.19.0
subtitle: Major Release
description: Istio 1.19 Release Announcement.

> publishdate: 2023-06-07

Reviewer: This date will need to change.

Author: fixed

release: 1.19.0
aliases:
    - /news/announcing-1.19
    - /news/announcing-1.19.0
---

We are pleased to announce the release of Istio 1.19. This is the third Istio release of 2023. We would like to thank the entire Istio community for helping get the 1.19.0 release published. We would like to thank the Release Managers for this release, `Kalya Subramanian` from Microsoft, `Xiaopeng Han` from DaoCloud, and `Aryan Gupta` from Google. The release managers would specially like to thank the Test & Release WG lead Eric Van Norman (IBM) for his help and guidance throughout the release cycle. We would also like to thank the maintainers of the Istio work groups and the broader Istio community for helping us throughout the release process with timely feedback, reviews, community testing and for all your support to help ensure a timely release.

{{< relnote >}}

{{< tip >}}
Istio 1.19.0 is officially supported on Kubernetes versions `1.25` to `1.28`.
{{< /tip >}}

## What's new

> TODO(ksubrmnn)

Author: @linsun @ericvn @howardjohn 

Which major changes should I highlight here?

Reviewer 2: Here is my take:

1) highlight changes for ambient and emphasize it is still alpha.
2) remind users about upgrade and read upgrade notice as there are a few breaking changes
3) highlight a few new features.
- Support for optional WE address
- cipher suite config
- optional mutual TLS mode
4) a lot of cleanups

Reviewer 3: ```
## Gateway API

The Kubernetes [Gateway API](http://gateway-api.org/) is an initiative to bring a rich set of service networking APIs (similar to those of Istio VirtualService and Gateway) to Kubernetes.

In this release, in tandem with the Gateway API v0.8.0 release, [service mesh support](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/blog/2023/0829-mesh-support/) is official added! This effort was a widespread community effort across the broader Kubernetes ecosystem, and has multiple conformant implementations (including Istio).

Check out the [mesh documentation](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/gateway-api/#mesh-traffic) to get started. As with any experimental feature, feedback is highly appreciated.

In addition to mesh traffic, usage of the API for ingress traffic [is in beta](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/gateway-api/#configuring-a-gateway) and rapidly approaching GA.

## Ambient Mesh

During this release cycle, the team has been hard at work improving the new [Ambient mesh](/docs/ops/ambient/), a new deployment model for Istio that elides the previous sidecar model. If you haven't heard of ambient yet, check out the [introduction blog post](/blog/2022/introducing-ambient-mesh/).

In this release, support for `ServiceEntry`, `WorkloadEntry`, `PeerAuthentication`, and DNS proxying has been added. In addition, a number of bug fixes and reliability improvements have been made.

In this release, ambient mesh remains at the [Alpha](/docs/releases/feature-stages/) feature phase. Your feedback is critical to driving ambient to Beta, so please try it out and let us know what you think!

```

Author: @linsun I have incorporated the changes John suggested. Re: number 3 in your suggestions, can you provide a draft similar to what John provided for WE address, cipher suite, and mTLS?

Reviewer 2: ## Miscellaneous Improvements

To further simplify virtual machine and multicluster experience, address field is optional now in the WorkloadEntry resources. We also added a few enhancement to security configurations, for example, you can configure `OPTIONAL_MUTUAL` at your Istio ingress gateway's TLS settings which allows optional client certificate and validates it if presented. Further, you can also configure your preferred cipher suites used for non Istio mTLS traffic via mesh config.

> ## Upgrading to 1.19

Reviewer 4: We should add an upgrade note for https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api/issues/2309

{{< relnote >}}

{{< tip >}}
Istio 1.19.0 is officially supported on Kubernetes versions `1.25` to `1.28`.
{{< /tip >}}

## What's new

### Gateway API

The Kubernetes [Gateway API](http://gateway-api.org/) is an initiative to bring a rich set of service networking APIs (similar to those of Istio VirtualService and Gateway) to Kubernetes.

In this release, in tandem with the Gateway API v0.8.0 release, [service mesh support](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/blog/2023/0829-mesh-support/) is officially added! This effort was a widespread community effort across the broader Kubernetes ecosystem and has multiple conformant implementations (including Istio).

Check out the [mesh documentation](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/gateway-api/#mesh-traffic) to get started. As with any experimental feature, feedback is highly appreciated.

In addition to mesh traffic, usage of the API for ingress traffic [is in beta](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/gateway-api/#configuring-a-gateway) and rapidly approaching GA.

### Ambient Mesh

> During this release cycle, the team has been hard at work improving the new [ambient mesh](/docs/ops/ambient/), a new deployment model for Istio that omits the previous sidecar model. If you haven't heard of ambient yet, check out the [introduction blog post](/blog/2022/introducing-ambient-mesh/).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
During this release cycle, the team has been hard at work improving the [ambient mesh](/docs/ops/ambient/), a new Istio deployment model alternative to the previous sidecar model. If you haven't heard of ambient yet, check out the [introduction blog post](/blog/2022/introducing-ambient-mesh/).
```

In this release, support for `ServiceEntry`, `WorkloadEntry`, `PeerAuthentication`, and DNS proxying has been added. In addition, a number of bug fixes and reliability improvements have been made.

> In this release, ambient mesh remains at the [Alpha](/docs/releases/feature-stages/) feature phase. Your feedback is critical to driving ambient to Beta, so please try it out and let us know what you think!

Reviewer 6: Ambient Mesh is not mentioned in the feature stages page

Reviewer: I hadn't caught the we haven't filled out the form and placed in the features.yaml in istio/enhancements. We should take this as a todo.

Author: removed link to feature stages

> In this release, ambient mesh remains at the [Alpha](/docs/releases/feature-stages/) feature phase. Your feedback is critical to driving ambient to Beta, so please try it out and let us know what you think!

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Note that ambient mesh remains at the [Alpha](/docs/releases/feature-stages/) feature phase in this release. Your feedback is critical to driving ambient to Beta, so please try it out and let us know what you think!
```

---
title: Announcing Istio 1.19.0
linktitle: 1.19.0
subtitle: Major Release
description: Istio 1.19 Release Announcement.

> publishdate: 2023-09-01

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
publishdate: 2023-09-05
```
